docs/sql_reference/functions-reference/aggregation/any_value.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: ANY_VALUE
description: Reference material for ANY_VALUE
grand_parent: SQL functions
parent: Aggregation functions
---

# ANY_VALUE

Returns a single arbitrary value from the specified column. This function ignores `NULL`s, so the only time it will return `NULL` is when all inputs are `NULL`s.

## Syntax
{: .no_toc}


```SQL
ANY_VALUE(<col>)
```

| Argument | Description                                  | Data Type |
| :-------- | :-------------------------------------------- | :--------- |
| `<col>`  | The column from which the value is returned. | Any       |

##### Return Type
{: .no_toc}

Same as input argument

## Example
{: .no_toc}

Consider a table, `players`, with a single column `nickname` as shown below. This table displays the nicknames for users playing a specific video game. 

```
+--------------+
| nickname     |
+--------------+
| kennethpark  |
| NULL         |
| sabrina21    |
| ruthgill     |
| steven70     |
+--------------+
```

The first time the query below runs, the nickname `kennethpark` might be returned. The second time the query runs, `sabrina21` or any other value, such as `ruthgill` or `steven70`, might be returned, but `NULL` will never be returned.

```sql
SELECT
	ANY_VALUE(nickname)
FROM
	players;
```

Commit message:

update parameters table with standardized parameter name and format, added ANY synonym

docs/sql_reference/functions-reference/aggregation/any_value.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: ANY_VALUE
description: Reference material for ANY_VALUE
grand_parent: SQL functions
parent: Aggregation functions
---

# ANY_VALUE

Returns a single arbitrary value from the specified column. This function ignores `NULL`s, so the only time it will return `NULL` is when all inputs are `NULL`s.

**Synonym:** `ANY`

## Syntax
{: .no_toc}

```SQL
ANY_VALUE(<expression>)
```

## Parameters
{: .no_toc}

| Parameter | Description                                  |Supported input types |
| :-------- | :-------------------------------------------- | :--------- |
| `<expression>`  | The column from which the value is returned. | Any       |

##### Return Type
{: .no_toc}

Same as input type

## Example
{: .no_toc}

Consider a table, `players`, with a single column `nickname` as shown below. This table displays the nicknames for users playing a specific video game. 

```
+--------------+
| nickname     |
+--------------+
| kennethpark  |
| NULL         |
| sabrina21    |
| ruthgill     |
| steven70     |
+--------------+
```

The first time the query below runs, the nickname `kennethpark` might be returned. The second time the query runs, `sabrina21` or any other value, such as `ruthgill` or `steven70`, might be returned, but `NULL` will never be returned.

```sql
SELECT
	ANY_VALUE(nickname)
FROM
	players;
```
