docs/sql_reference/functions-reference/aggregation/avg.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: AVG
description: Reference material for AVG
great_grand_parent: SQL reference
grand_parent: SQL functions
parent: Aggregation functions
---


# AVG

Calculates the average of an expression.

## Syntax
{: .no_toc}

```sql
AVG(<value>)
```

## Parameters
{: .no_toc}

| Parameter | Description                         |Supported input types |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :---------------------|
| `<value>`  | The expression used to calculate the average | Any numeric type | 

Valid values for the expression include column names or functions that return a column name (or columns) that contain numeric values.

The `AVG()` aggregation function ignores rows with `NULL` values. For example, an `AVG` from 3 rows containing `1`, `2`, and `NULL` returns `1.5` because the `NULL` row is not counted. To calculate an average that includes `NULL`, use `SUM(COLUMN)/COUNT(*)`.

## Return Types
* `NUMERIC` if the input is type `INTEGER`, `BIGINT` or `NUMERIC`
* `DOUBLE PRECISION` if the input is type `REAL` or `DOUBLE PRECISION`

## Example

The example below uses the following table `LevelPoints`. This table includes the maximum points a player can score at each level of the game:

| levels   | maxpoints |
| :--------| :---------|
| 1        | 50        |
| 2        | 100       |
| 3        | 150       |
| 4        | 200       |
| 5        | 250       |

Use the query below to find the average of the `maxpoints` value. 

```sql
SELECT 
    AVG(maxpoints) AS AverageMaxPoints 
FROM levels;
```

**Returns**:

| AverageMaxPoints | 
| :----------------| 
| 150              |

Commit message:

fix(data types): Add explanation of float inaccuracy (#235)
* fix(data types): Add explanation of float inaccuracy

This PR adds a note on floating point accuracy to the sum and avg
aggregate functions

docs/sql_reference/functions-reference/aggregation/avg.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: AVG
description: Reference material for AVG
great_grand_parent: SQL reference
grand_parent: SQL functions
parent: Aggregation functions
---


# AVG

Calculates the average of an expression.

## Syntax
{: .no_toc}

```sql
AVG(<value>)
```

## Parameters
{: .no_toc}

| Parameter | Description                         |Supported input types |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :---------------------|
| `<value>`  | The expression used to calculate the average | Any numeric type | 

Valid values for the expression include column names or functions that return a column name (or columns) that contain numeric values.

The `AVG()` aggregation function ignores rows with `NULL` values. For example, an `AVG` from 3 rows containing `1`, `2`, and `NULL` returns `1.5` because the `NULL` row is not counted. To calculate an average that includes `NULL`, use `SUM(COLUMN)/COUNT(*)`.

## Return Types
* `NUMERIC` if the input is type `INTEGER`, `BIGINT` or `NUMERIC`
* `DOUBLE PRECISION` if the input is type `REAL` or `DOUBLE PRECISION`

## Precision and Determinism
Applying `AVG` to REAL and DOUBLE PRECISION is subject to [floating point arithmetic accuracy limitations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floating-point_arithmetic#Accuracy_problems) and its resulting error.
This error may add up when aggregating multiple values.

The order of operations while computing the aggregate is non-deterministic.
This can lead to varying total floating point error when running a query multiple times.
If this is not acceptable for your use-case, aggregate on [NUMERIC](/sql_reference/numeric-data-type) data instead.

## Example

The example below uses the following table `LevelPoints`. This table includes the maximum points a player can score at each level of the game:

| levels   | maxpoints |
| :--------| :---------|
| 1        | 50        |
| 2        | 100       |
| 3        | 150       |
| 4        | 200       |
| 5        | 250       |

Use the query below to find the average of the `maxpoints` value. 

```sql
SELECT 
    AVG(maxpoints) AS AverageMaxPoints 
FROM levels;
```

**Returns**:

| AverageMaxPoints | 
| :----------------| 
| 150              |
