docs/sql_reference/functions-reference/aggregation/stddev-samp.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: STDDEV_SAMP
description: Reference material for STDDEV_SAMP
great_grand_parent: SQL reference
grand_parent: SQL functions
parent: Aggregation functions
published: false
---

# STDDEV\_SAMP

Computes the standard deviation of a sample consisting of a numeric expression.

## Syntax
{: .no_toc}

```sql
STDDEV_SAMP(<expression>)
```
## Parameters 
{: .no_toc}

| Parameter | Description               | Supported input types |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :--------|
| `<expression>`  | The expression for calculating the standard deviation. | Any numeric type | 

## Return Type
`DOUBLE PRECISION`

## Example
{: .no_toc}

Consider the following table `tournament_information`, which contains the name of the tournament and the total prize dollars for the tournament: 

| name | prizedollars | 
|:-------| :--------|
| The Snow Park Grand Prix | 20903	| 
| The Acceleration Championship | 19274	|
The Acceleration Trials | 13877 | 


`STDDEV_SAMP` returns the standard deviation for the values as a `DOUBLE PRECISION`.

```sql
SELECT
	STDDEV_SAMP(prizedollars)
FROM
	tournament_information;
```

**Returns**: `3,677.5427937686873`

Commit message:

add docs for statistical unary functions stddev_samp, stddev_pop, var… (#327)
* add docs for statistical unary functions stddev_samp, stddev_pop, var_samp, and var_pop

update description

add links to the other functions

add auto-generated examples and include them in the function docs

* update example description text

* add functions to the glossary

* enable pr check

* update the examples

* fix return types in the sql examples, remove assignee field and remove warning about unstable algorithms

* Nandi revisions for format and consistency

* Update stddev-pop.md

change return type to be a full sentence.

* Update stddev-samp.md

changed return type to full sentence

* Update variance-pop.md

Made return type into full sentence.

* Update variance-samp.md

changed return type to full sentence

* remove distinct keyword

---------

Co-authored-by: nanimal-fb <papia.nandi@firebolt.io>

docs/sql_reference/functions-reference/aggregation/stddev-samp.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: STDDEV_SAMP
description: Reference material for STDDEV_SAMP
great_grand_parent: SQL reference
grand_parent: SQL functions
parent: Aggregation functions
published: true
---

# STDDEV\_SAMP

Computes the sample standard deviation of all non-`NULL` numeric values produced by an expression. 
The sample standard deviation measures how spread out values are in a sample by calculating the square root of the average of squared deviations from the sample mean, using a correction for sample size. For information about the population standard deviation, which estimates the spread of values in the full population, see [STDDEV_POP](stddev-pop.md).

**Alias**: `STDDEV`


## Syntax
{: .no_toc}

```sql
{ STDDEV | STDDEV_SAMP }(<expression>)
```
## Parameters 
{: .no_toc}

| Parameter | Description               | Supported input types |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :--------|
| `<expression>`  | An expression producing numeric values for which to calculate the sample standard deviation. | `REAL`, `DOUBLE PRECISION` <!-- Any numeric type-->|

## Return Type
`STDDEV_SAMP` returns a result of type `DOUBLE PRECISION`. <!--for `REAL` and `DOUBLE PRECISION` input types.-->
<!-- `NUMERIC` for serial and `NUMERIC` input types (not yet supported)-->

### Special cases
- If there is at most one non-`NULL` input value, the result is `NULL`.
- If the input contains an `Inf` or `NaN` value, the result will be `NaN`.

## Example
{: .no_toc}

{% include sql_examples/stddev_samp.md %}
