docs/sql_reference/functions-reference/aggregation/sum.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: SUM
description: Reference material for SUM
great_grand_parent: SQL reference
grand_parent: SQL functions
parent: Aggregation functions
---

# SUM

Calculates the sum of an expression.

## Syntax
{: .no_toc}

```sql
SUM ([ DISTINCT ] <value>)
```
## Parameters 
{: .no_toc} 


| Parameter | Description                         |Supported input types |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :---------------------|
| `<value>`   | The expression used to calculate the sum. | Any numeric type | 

Valid values for `<value>` include column names or expressions that evaluate to numeric values. When `DISTINCT` is being used, only the unique number of rows with no `NULL` values are summed.

## Return Types
`NUMERIC` 

## Example

For this example, see the following table `tournaments`: 

| name                          | totalprizedollars |
| :-----------------------------| :-----------------| 
| The Drifting Thunderdome      | 24,768             |
| The Lost Track Showdown       | 5,336              |
| The Acceleration Championship | 19,274             |
| The Winter Wilderness Rally   | 21,560             |
| The Circuit Championship      | 9,739              |
| The Singapore Grand Prix      | 19,274             |


```sql
SELECT
	SUM(totalprizedollars)
FROM
	tournaments
```

**Returns**: `99,951`

```sql
SELECT
	SUM (DISTINCT totalprizedollars)
FROM
	tournaments
```

For this calculation, since both the Singapore Grand Prix and The Acceleration Championship have the same total prize of `19,274`, only one of these values in this sum in included. 

**Returns**: `80,677`

Commit message:

fix(data types): Add explanation of float inaccuracy (#235)
* fix(data types): Add explanation of float inaccuracy

This PR adds a note on floating point accuracy to the sum and avg
aggregate functions

docs/sql_reference/functions-reference/aggregation/sum.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: SUM
description: Reference material for SUM
great_grand_parent: SQL reference
grand_parent: SQL functions
parent: Aggregation functions
---

# SUM

Calculates the sum of an expression.

## Syntax
{: .no_toc}

```sql
SUM ([ DISTINCT ] <value>)
```
## Parameters 
{: .no_toc} 


| Parameter | Description                         |Supported input types |
| :--------- | :----------------------------------- | :---------------------|
| `<value>`   | The expression used to calculate the sum. | Any numeric type | 

Valid values for `<value>` include column names or expressions that evaluate to numeric values. When `DISTINCT` is being used, only the unique number of rows with no `NULL` values are summed.

## Return Types
`NUMERIC` 

## Precision and Determinism
Applying `SUM` to REAL and DOUBLE PRECISION is subject to [floating point arithmetic accuracy limitations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floating-point_arithmetic#Accuracy_problems) and its resulting error.
This error may add up when aggregating multiple values.

The order of operations while computing the aggregate is non-deterministic.
This can lead to varying total floating point error when running a query multiple times.
If this is not acceptable for your use-case, aggregate on [NUMERIC](/sql_reference/numeric-data-type) data instead.

## Example

For this example, see the following table `tournaments`: 

| name                          | totalprizedollars |
| :-----------------------------| :-----------------| 
| The Drifting Thunderdome      | 24,768             |
| The Lost Track Showdown       | 5,336              |
| The Acceleration Championship | 19,274             |
| The Winter Wilderness Rally   | 21,560             |
| The Circuit Championship      | 9,739              |
| The Singapore Grand Prix      | 19,274             |


```sql
SELECT
	SUM(totalprizedollars)
FROM
	tournaments
```

**Returns**: `99,951`

```sql
SELECT
	SUM (DISTINCT totalprizedollars)
FROM
	tournaments
```

For this calculation, since both the Singapore Grand Prix and The Acceleration Championship have the same total prize of `19,274`, only one of these values in this sum in included. 

**Returns**: `80,677`
