docs/Guides/working-with-engines/working-with-engines-using-ddl.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Work with engines using DDL
description: Learn how to create, modify and run Firebolt engines.
nav_order: 2
parent: Work with engines
grand_parent: Guides
---


# Create Engines
## UI
1. Choose "Engines" <br />
  ![](../../assets/images/Engines_Section.png){: width="600" .centered}
 <br /> 

2. Click the “+” sign and choose “Create new engine” <br />
 ![](../../assets/images/Engine_Create_Popup.png){: width="600" .centered}
 <br /> 

3. Enter the engine name, type and number of nodes <br />
![](../../assets/images/Create_Engine_Dialog.png){: width="600" .centered}
 <br />  

## API <br />
Use the [CREATE ENGINE](../../sql_reference/commands/engines/create-engine.md) command.

The following statement creates an engine with one cluster that has two nodes of type 'S'
```sql
CREATE ENGINE MyEngine;
```  


```sql
CREATE ENGINE MyEngine WITH
TYPE='M' NODES=2 CLUSTERS=1;
```  
The following statement creates an engine with one cluster that has two nodes of type 'M'.

For more details with a full list of attributes and more example, see the [CREATE ENGINE](../../sql_reference/commands/engines/create-engine.md) command.

Commit message:

Add the START ENGINE operation

docs/Guides/working-with-engines/working-with-engines-using-ddl.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Work with engines using DDL
description: Learn how to create, modify and run Firebolt engines.
nav_order: 2
parent: Work with engines
grand_parent: Guides
---


# Create Engines
## UI
1. Choose "Engines" <br />
  ![](../../assets/images/Engines_Section.png){: width="600" .centered}
 <br /> 

2. Click the “+” sign and choose “Create new engine” <br />
 ![](../../assets/images/Engine_Create_Popup.png){: width="600" .centered}
 <br /> 

3. Enter the engine name, type and number of nodes and click the "Create new engine" button <br />
![](../../assets/images/Create_Engine_Dialog.png){: width="600" .centered}
 <br />  

## API <br />
Use the [CREATE ENGINE](../../sql_reference/commands/engines/create-engine.md) command.

The following statement creates an engine with one cluster that has two nodes of type 'S'.
```sql
CREATE ENGINE MyEngine;
```  

The following statement creates an engine with one cluster that has two nodes of type 'M'.

```sql
CREATE ENGINE MyEngine WITH
TYPE='M' NODES=2 CLUSTERS=1;
```  

For more details with a full list of attributes and more example, see the [CREATE ENGINE](../../sql_reference/commands/engines/create-engine.md) command.

# Starting an Engine or Resuming a Stopped Engine
## UI
1. From the list of engines, next to the engine that you want to start or resume, click the drop-down and select **Start engine** <br />
![](../../assets/images/Start_Engine.png){: width="600" .centered}
 <br /> 
Once the engine is started, the engine state will change to "Running"

## API
Use the [START ENGINE](../../sql_reference/commands/engines/start-engine.md) command as show below:

```sql
START ENGINE MyEngine;
```
