---
layout: default
title: Setting up SSO authentication
description: Learn about setting up SSO authentication for Firebolt. 
nav_order: 7
parent: Managing your organization
grand_parent: Guides
---

# Setting up SSO authentication

This topic describes how to configure FIrebolt for Single Sign On (SSO) using SAML 2.0. This topic assumes that you have already [configured your identity provider to work with Firebolt].

Firebolt supports the following identity providers (IDPs):
- Okta
- OneLogin
- Custom

If your identity provider is not on the above list but supports SAML 2.0, contact the Firebolt support team for further assistance. 


## Configure SSO

{: .note}
Configuring SSO requires the org_admin role.

SSO can be configured in two ways - using SQL or the UI.  To configure SSO using SQL, use the [`ALTER ORGANIZATION`] statement. For example:

```sql
ALTER ORGANIZATION SET SSO = ‘{
  “signOnUrl”: “https://abc.okta.com/app/okta_firebolt_app_id/sso/saml”,
  “signOutUrl”: “https://myapp.exampleco.com/saml/logout”, 
  “issuer”: “Okta”,
  “provider”: “Okta”,
  “label”: “Okta”,
  “fieldMapping”: “mapping”,
  “certificate”: “XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX”,
}’;
```

To set up SSO via the UI:
1. Click **Configure** to open the configure space, then choose **SSO**.

2. Enter the following information:
        - Sign-on URL: The sign-on URL, provided by the SAML identity provider, to which Firebolt sends the SAML requests. The URL is IDP-specific and is determined by the identity provider during configuration.For example, using Okta as an identity provider, the URL might look like:
        https://okta_account_name.okta.com/app/okta_firebolt_app_id/sso/saml 
        - Sign-out URL (optional): The sign-out URL, provided by the application owner, to be used when the user signs out of the application. 
        - Issuer (optional): A unique value generated by the SAML identity provider specifying the issuer value.
        - Provider: The provider's name - for example: “Okta”. Possible values are: Okta, Onelogin, Custom. Use the "Custom" label if you are using a SAML 2.0-compliant service or application as your IDP. Once the provider has been selected it can't be changed, but you can delete the SSO configuration ([see below]) to then set up using a different provider. 
        - Label (optional): The label to use for the SSO login button. If not provided, the Provider field value is used. 
        - Certificate: The CA certificate to verify the communication between the identity provider and Firebolt. The certificate needs to be in PEM or CER format, and can be uploaded from your computer by choosing **Import certificate** or entered in the text box. 
        - Field mapping (optional): Mapping to your identity provider's first and last name in key-value pairs. If additional fields are required, choose **Add another key-value pair**. Mapping is required for Firebolt to fill in the login’s given and last names the first time the user logs in using SSO. 
        If this field remains empty when a login that represents the user is being created (read more in the [log in with SSO] section), the login's first and last name fields will contain “NA”. Those fields can be updated later by running the [`ALTER LOGIN`] command. 

        Here’s an example of how to set up field mapping:
        
        ```
        {
            "given_name": "name",
            "family_name": "surname"
        }
        ```

        where the "given_name" (first name) is mapped to the "name" field from the IDP, and the "family_name" (last name) is mapped from the "surname" field.
3. Choose **Update changes**.

SSO is now configured for your organization!

## Edit SSO settings

{: .note}
Editing SSO settings requires the org_admin role

SSO settings can be edited in two ways - using SQL or the UI.  To edit SSO settings using SQL, use the [`ALTER ORGANIZATION`] statement. For example:

```sql
ALTER ORGANIZATION SET SSO = ‘{
  “signOnUrl”: “https://abc.okta.com/app/okta_firebolt_app_id/sso/saml”,
  “signOutUrl”: “https://myapp.exampleco.com/saml/logout”, 
  “issuer”: “issuer”,
  “provider”: “Okta”, 
  “label”: “Okta”,
  “fieldMapping”: “mapping”,
  “certificate”: “XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX”,
}’;
```


To edit SSO settings via the UI:
1. Click **Configure** to open the configure space, then choose **SSO**.

2. Edit the desired properties.

3. Choose Update changes.

## Delete SSO

{: .note}
Deleting SSO requires the org_admin role

To disable the ability to log in using SSO, SSO settings can be deleted in two ways - using SQL or the UI.  To edit SSO settings using SQL, use the following command:

```sql
ALTER ORGANIZATION SET SSO = DEFAULT;
```


To edit SSO settings via the UI:
1. Click **Configure** to open the configure space, then choose **SSO**.

2. Choose **Clear SSO configuration**.
3. Choose **Update changes**.


Once SSO configuration is deleted:
- Logins created via SSO will remain in your organization, but won't be able to log in to Firebolt unless enabled to log in using a password. Use the `ALTER LOGIN` statement to configure this. 
- All logins with `is_sso_provisioned=true` will be updated to `sso_provisioned=false`.


## Log in using SSO

1. Go to go.firebolt.io/login
2. Enter the name of your organization and choose **Continue to log in**.
If you can’t remember the name of the organization, next to “Don’t know your organization name?” choose Find out.
Enter the email address you use to log in to Firebolt and choose Send link.
Check your inbox for an email with the link to log in directly to your organization. You can bookmark this link so that you can use it for future reference.
Choose Log in with <IDP>.
You will be redirected to the IDP to authenticate. Once authenticated, you will be redirected back to Firebolt.

Upon login, if a login with the specified email address does not exist, Firebolt will create a new login with the email address, first, and last name as specified in the SAML assertation received from the IDP. 
When the login is created:
The IS_PASSWORD_ENABLED property will be set to False.
The IS_SSO_PROVISIONED property will be set to true 
Note: Such logins will only be able to login with SSO
If the login exists (and field mapping is not empty), but the first or last name is different than the one specified in the IDP, Firebolt will update the properties with the new values. Otherwise - those fields remain the same. 
