docs/sql_reference/commands/access-control/alter-user.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: ALTER USER
description: Reference and syntax for the ALTER USER command.
great_grand_parent: SQL reference
grand_parent:  SQL commands
parent: Access control
---

# ALTER USER

Updates the configuration of the specified user.

For more information, see [Managing users](../../../Guides/managing-your-organization/managing-users.md).

## Syntax

```sql
ALTER USER <user_name> SET
	[ LOGIN = <login_name> | DEFAULT ]
        [ SERVICE_ACCOUNT = <service_account_name> | DEFAULT ]
        [ DEFAULT_DATABASE = <database_name> | DEFAULT ]
	[ DEFAULT_ENGINE = <engine_name> | DEFAULT ];
```
or 

```sql
ALTER USER <user_name> RENAME TO <new_user_name>;
```

## Parameters 
{: .no_toc} 

| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `<user_name>`                              | The name of the user. If the user name contains spaces or non-alphanumeric characters, it must be enclosed in single or double quotes.  |
| `<new_user_name>` | The new name of the user, used with the `RENAME TO` option. The new user name can be any string, and can also contain spaces and non-alpha-numeric characters such as exclamation points (!), percent signs (%), at signs(@), dot signs (.), underscore signs (_), minus signs (-), and asterisks (*). If the string contains spaces or non-alphanumeric characters, it must be enclosed in single or double quotes.
| `<login_name>` | An optional, case-insensitive parameter to specify the name of the login to link the user with, used with the `SET` option. This cannot be used in conjunction with the SERVICE_ACCOUNT parameter - a user can be linked to a login OR a service account but not both. |
| `<service_account_name>` | An optional parameter to specify the name of the service account to link the user with, used with the `SET` option. This cannot be used in conjunction with the LOGIN parameter - a user can be linked to a login OR a service account but not both. |
| `<database_name>`                      | An optional parameter to define a default database for the user (for future purposes). Used with the `SET` option. |
| `<engine_name>` | An optional parameter to define a default engine for the user (for future purposes).Used with the `SET` option. |

## Example

The following command will rename the "alex" account to "alexs".

```sql
ALTER USER "alex" RENAME TO "alexs";
```

This command will link the user "alex" to the "alexs@acme.com" login.

```sql
ALTER USER alex SET LOGIN="alexs@acme.com";
```

Commit message:

added reference to alter owner to in existing alter pages, and created new ones as if they didn't exist

docs/sql_reference/commands/access-control/alter-user.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: ALTER USER
description: Reference and syntax for the ALTER USER command.
great_grand_parent: SQL reference
grand_parent:  SQL commands
parent: Access control
---

# ALTER USER

Updates the configuration of the specified user.

For more information, see [Managing users](../../../Guides/managing-your-organization/managing-users.md).

## ALTER USER SET

### Syntax

```sql
ALTER USER <user_name> SET
	[ LOGIN = <login_name> | DEFAULT ]
        [ SERVICE_ACCOUNT = <service_account_name> | DEFAULT ]
        [ DEFAULT_DATABASE = <database_name> | DEFAULT ]
	[ DEFAULT_ENGINE = <engine_name> | DEFAULT ];
```
or 

```sql
ALTER USER <user_name> RENAME TO <new_user_name>;
```

### Parameters 
{: .no_toc} 

| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `<user_name>`                              | The name of the user. If the user name contains spaces or non-alphanumeric characters, it must be enclosed in single or double quotes.  |
| `<new_user_name>` | The new name of the user, used with the `RENAME TO` option. The new user name can be any string, and can also contain spaces and non-alpha-numeric characters such as exclamation points (!), percent signs (%), at signs(@), dot signs (.), underscore signs (_), minus signs (-), and asterisks (*). If the string contains spaces or non-alphanumeric characters, it must be enclosed in single or double quotes.
| `<login_name>` | An optional, case-insensitive parameter to specify the name of the login to link the user with, used with the `SET` option. This cannot be used in conjunction with the SERVICE_ACCOUNT parameter - a user can be linked to a login OR a service account but not both. |
| `<service_account_name>` | An optional parameter to specify the name of the service account to link the user with, used with the `SET` option. This cannot be used in conjunction with the LOGIN parameter - a user can be linked to a login OR a service account but not both. |
| `<database_name>`                      | An optional parameter to define a default database for the user (for future purposes). Used with the `SET` option. |
| `<engine_name>` | An optional parameter to define a default engine for the user (for future purposes).Used with the `SET` option. |

### Example

The following command will rename the "alex" account to "alexs".

```sql
ALTER USER "alex" RENAME TO "alexs";
```

This command will link the user "alex" to the "alexs@acme.com" login.

```sql
ALTER USER alex SET LOGIN="alexs@acme.com";
```

## ALTER USER OWNER TO

Change the owner of a user. The current owner of a user can be viewed in the `information_schema.users` view on `user_owner` column.

Check [ownership](../../../Guides/security/ownership.md) page for more info.

### Syntax

```sql
ALTER USER <user_name> OWNER TO <user>
```

### Parameters 
{: .no_toc}

| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `<user_name>` | The name of the user to change the owner of. |
| `<user>` | The new owner of the user. |
