docs/sql_reference/commands/queries/cancel.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: CANCEL QUERY
great_grand_parent: SQL reference
grand_parent: SQL commands
parent: Queries
---

# CANCEL QUERY

The `CANCEL QUERY` statement is used to cancel a running query within the Firebolt engine. This statement provides a mechanism to terminate the execution of a specific query identified by its unique `query_id`.

## Syntax

```sql
CANCEL QUERY WHERE query_id = '<query_id>';
```

## Parameters

| Parameter              | Description |
| :--------------------- | :---------- |
| `<query_id>`  | A unique identifier assigned to the query that needs to be canceled. |

## Example

```sql
CANCEL QUERY WHERE query_id = '12345';
```

## Notes
* The query_id is typically obtained from the `information_schema.engine_running_queries` view.
* When a query is canceled, it terminates the processes of that specific query. This action both frees up resources and prevents any further execution of the query.
* This statement is designed for administrative use and may require appropriate privileges to execute. However, all users can cancel their own queries by default.

## Example Use Case

Consider a scenario where there is a long-running query that needs to be canceled to free up system resources. The following statement can be used to obtain the query_id:
```sql
SELECT status, duration_usec, query_text, query_id FROM information_schema.engine_running_queries;
```

Suppose the long-running query is identified with query_id '12345':
```sql
CANCEL QUERY WHERE query_id = '12345';
```
This will initiate the cancellation process for the specified query_id. While the query is not immediately removed from running_queries, its status will be observed as `CANCELING` there.
After the cancellation process is completed, the query will have the `CANCELED` status in the `information_schema.engine_query_history` view:
```sql
SELECT query_id, query_text FROM information_schema.engine_query_history WHERE status = 'CANCELED';
```

Commit message:

Add query-label doc (#205)
* add query-label

* resolve comments

* resolve comment

docs/sql_reference/commands/queries/cancel.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: CANCEL QUERY
great_grand_parent: SQL reference
grand_parent: SQL commands
parent: Queries
---

# CANCEL QUERY

The `CANCEL QUERY` statement is used to cancel a running query within the Firebolt engine. This statement provides a mechanism to terminate the execution of a specific query identified by its unique `query_id`.
Using [query labels](../../../Reference/system-settings.md#query-labeling--tagging) makes it easier to retrieve the query id of your query.

## Syntax

```sql
CANCEL QUERY WHERE query_id = '<query_id>';
```

## Parameters

| Parameter              | Description |
| :--------------------- | :---------- |
| `<query_id>`  | A unique identifier assigned to the query that needs to be canceled. |

## Example

```sql
CANCEL QUERY WHERE query_id = '12345';
```

## Notes
* The query_id is typically obtained from the `information_schema.engine_running_queries` view.
* When a query is canceled, it terminates the processes of that specific query. This action both frees up resources and prevents any further execution of the query.
* This statement is designed for administrative use and may require appropriate privileges to execute. However, all users can cancel their own queries by default.

## Example Use Case

Consider a scenario where there is a long-running query that needs to be canceled to free up system resources. The following statement can be used to obtain the query_id:
```sql
SELECT status, duration_usec, query_text, query_id FROM information_schema.engine_running_queries;
```

Suppose the long-running query is identified with query_id '12345':
```sql
CANCEL QUERY WHERE query_id = '12345';
```
This will initiate the cancellation process for the specified query_id. While the query is not immediately removed from running_queries, its status will be observed as `CANCELING` there.
After the cancellation process is completed, the query will have the `CANCELED` status in the `information_schema.engine_query_history` view:
```sql
SELECT query_id, query_text FROM information_schema.engine_query_history WHERE status = 'CANCELED';
```
